Okay, so good morning.
I'm Mark Kawano,
Apple's User Experience Evangelist.
Today I'm going to be talking about
designing user interfaces for the iPhone,
the iPad, and the Mac.
And before I get started,
I just want to play a video of
one of our recent commercials.
So let's watch.
This is what we believe.
Technology alone is not enough.
Faster.
Thinner.
Lighter.
Those are all good things.
But when technology gets out of the way,
Even magical.
That's when you leap forward.
That's when you end up
with something like this.
All right, isn't that great?
It's one of my favorite
Apple commercials.
So when technology gets out of the way,
everything becomes more delightful,
even magical.
And while this was a
commercial for the iPad 2,
this is a belief that permeates
everything that we do at Apple,
right?
From our retail stores, to the hardware,
to the software and cloud services.
When we design products,
our goal is to enable our users to learn,
work, play,
or communicate in the most intuitive
and delightful way possible.
And when you design your app,
this should be your goal as well.
Remember that it's not about technology
that you have under the hood.
It's not about how impressive
your feature list sounds.
And it's also not about how
pretty your screenshots look.
Those are all important,
but what your users really care about
is what your app enables them to do.
How it makes them feel
when they're using it.
And that's what you need to think about
when you're designing the UI of your app.
So many of you know just how
challenging it can be to design
a really great user experience.
Some of you might have apps on one
of our app stores already and are
just wondering how to improve the UI.
And others of you are working on an
app for the first time and just want
to make sure the design is just right.
So today I'm going to be covering
some content that will help you
improve the design and UI of your app,
whether it's for the iPhone, the iPad,
or the Mac.
Now, it would be impossible for me to
cover every single UI situation you're
going to face when designing your app,
right?
We could spend all week
talking about just UI design.
And covering all the different
topics is not my intention,
right?
The content that I've put
together today comes from my
experience designing apps at Apple,
but also from working with hundreds
of developers from all over the
world to help them improve the
design and UI of their apps.
So if there's just one thing that
you take away from my talk today,
it should be this,
that each device is unique.
So many developers don't consider the
unique characteristics of each device
when they're designing their app.
So many of the iPhone and iPad apps
that I see have interfaces that are
kind of best suited for the web,
right?
And their features make
more sense on a desktop.
And lots of the Mac apps that
I see are using old computing
paradigms from the 80s and the 90s.
And so when you design your app,
you need to make sure you're
considering the unique
characteristics of each device.
To help you do this,
what I'm first going to do is review the
device characteristics of the iPhone,
the iPad, and the Mac.
I'm going to talk about the different
ways that people use each device
and how you need to really let
this impact the UI of your app.
And after I review the
device characteristics,
I'm then going to provide some detailed
design tips that will help you get
started with the UI of your app.
OK, so let's get started.
So first let's talk about the iPhone.
As you know,
it's got a 3 and 1/2 inch screen,
weighs less than 5 ounces.
And this makes the iPhone
extremely portable,
right?
And so you see iPhones everywhere, right?
Walking down the streets,
in line at the grocery store,
or at the bank, restaurants, meetings,
everywhere.
Think about all the places
you've used your iPhone,
right?
When you design an app for the iPhone,
you need to always take into
account its extreme portability.
iPhone apps need to be simple.
You just don't have time to be
waiting and learning a complex
and confusing user interface.
And iPhone apps need to be quick.
Users should be able to complete
their tasks really fast and move on,
right?
And users need to know that
they can rely on the data in
your app wherever they are.
So your app needs to be reliable as well.
And they don't want to be surprised
when they're navigating different
parts of the user interface.
Now the iPad.
So like the iPhone, the iPad is portable,
right?
It's a very portable device.
But it's not pocket sized.
What's unique about the iPad is
its 10-inch multi-touch display.
It's beautiful, right?
The iPad is really unique
because it's so light and thin.
When you hold it, it actually feels like
you're just holding a screen.
You don't even think about
all the advanced technology
and computing power behind it.
And so when you design
an app for the iPad,
you need to always think about
how to take advantage of this
large 10-inch multi-touch display.
And so your app needs
to be highly visual.
The layouts, the typography,
the graphics, they need to be beautiful.
It should be immersive.
Users spend longer periods of
time using an iPad app and your
app should account for this.
And it should be realistic, right?
The 10-inch screen is great for
representing real-world objects
that you're able to actually
interact with with both of your
hands on the multi-touch display.
And it should be flexible.
Remember that there's no right
or wrong way to hold your iPad.
So Macs come in all different
sizes from our 11-inch
MacBook Air to the 27-inch iMac.
So your app also needs to
be flexible on the Mac,
right?
This is definitely going to affect
the way that you design a Mac app.
People love using Macs because
they're so visually appealing,
right?
We pay so much care and consideration
into every interface element on the Mac.
And when you design your app,
it needs to feel right at home.
In Lion, we've got lots of new
support for full screen apps.
And every app developer that's working
on a Mac app needs to think about
how to take advantage of full screen
and what this means for your users.
And there's a lot of new multi-touch
gestures in Lion as well.
And we really think that these new
multi-touch gestures are going to
fundamentally change the way that
people interact with their Macs.
And so in your app,
you need to really think
about what this means.
Okay, so when you design your app,
really consider the unique
characteristics of each device.
If you're designing for the iPhone,
make sure that you're always taking
into account its extreme portability.
It needs to be fast.
The UI needs to be simple and it
needs to be reliable wherever you are,
right?
And if you're designing for the iPad,
take advantage of that
large multi-touch display.
Don't just treat the iPad
as another type of screen.
It's really a unique device.
It's not just a place to view
websites or a smaller computer.
It's an iPad.
It's really special.
Take advantage of it.
And then on the Mac,
if you're building an app for the
Mac App Store because you want to
reach more customers and really
get in front of a lot of people,
you can't just take your existing web app
or an app that's been designed for a PC.
Or other platform and just put it on the
Mac App Store and expect to have success.
You really need to think about OS X,
the most advanced desktop OS,
and how Lion's going to
affect the UI of your app.
Okay, so let's now go into each of
the different devices and talk
about some design tips that you
can use in the UI of your app.
So let's start again with the iPhone.
And when the iPhone first came out,
there were some major
paradigm shifts in UI design,
right?
And the multi-touch screen
was a large reason for this.
There's no longer any abstraction
between what you're seeing on
the screen and the input device.
You're able to just reach
out and touch objects,
direct manipulation, right?
And so we've seen some amazing
things come out from developers,
many of you in the room, right?
So many great apps.
But when you design an app
for the multi-touch screen,
you need to remember to always
make the controls fingertip-sized.
One of the most common problems,
probably the most common problem that
I see on iPhone apps are buttons and
controls that are designed for a cursor.
They're too crowded and small and
it makes them really hard to tap.
So imagine you're on an elevator
and they had buttons designed
for a cursor instead of a finger,
right?
And you're in a rush and you
get on and it would be really
hard to press the right floor.
It would take a lot of time
and effort to just get the
floor that you wanted to go to.
If you were in a hurry,
you might end up pressing all
the buttons above and below the
floors that you wanted to go to.
It would be very frustrating, right,
because you just want to get
to the place and move on.
And I know this sounds ridiculous,
but so many iPhone apps have this
same problem because they weren't
designed with a fingertip in mind.
And in the iOS human
interface guidelines,
we recommend a minimum tap
target to be 44 by 44 points.
And the built-in Calculator app
is a great reference to follow,
right?
The buttons are nice and easy to tap,
and there's adequate
spacing between each one.
But remember that iPhone
users are always on the go.
So you need to vary the control
size based on how your users
are interacting with your app.
So this is the Nike Plus GPS app.
And if you haven't used it,
it's a great app.
It's for joggers and it
lets you track the time,
distance, location.
Connects to a pedometer in
your Nike Plus sneakers.
And it even gives you audio
encouragement if you're
listening to music on your iPod.
And notice how they've made
the pause button nice and big
in the center of the screen,
right?
It's way bigger than the 44 by 44 points
that we recommend because it needs to
be easy to tap when the user is jogging.
In your app,
really think about the different ways
that your users are going to interact
with it and make sure that you make the
buttons and controls adequately sized.
Don't just test your app on the iOS
simulator or in your office and see,
oh, is it easy to use here?
Really go out,
put a development build on a device,
go out in the real world the way that
people are going to be using your app,
and that's how you're going
to know it's easy to use.
So you also need to streamline
navigation in your app,
right?
Unless you're building some
type of adventure game,
don't make the path to information
feel gimmicky or challenging.
Users want to be able to access
the content quickly and get
tasks just done right away.
So a great way to streamline navigation
in your app is to use swiping.
And you guys are all
familiar with swiping.
So this is the weather app.
And we use swiping because it's a very
fast way to get to different data sets.
So in the weather app, you can just swipe
between different cards.
And you're moving between cities.
And because we're relying on
a gesture for the navigation,
we're able to fill up the
entire screen with just content.
And so when the user launches an app,
They see exactly what
they want right away.
So many of you are using swiping in
your apps or thinking about using it.
So I want to go through
some tips about swiping.
And sure, all the items are equal, right?
So in the weather app,
everything that you
swipe between are cities.
And sure, they may be in different order
because where you live or the
different places that you go to,
but they're all cities.
If you add different types of objects to
the things that you're swiping between,
it can get very confusing for users,
right?
So say you were going
between a bunch of documents,
then all of a sudden you got
to a folder of documents or
something else altogether,
right?
So make sure all the
different items are equal.
Make sure the content doesn't scroll.
So when you're swiping on the iPhone,
it actually feels a lot like
you're physically kind of
shuffling a deck of cards.
You're moving cards, you know,
just kind of -- and that
metaphor gets lost if the content
scrolls beyond the screen.
Another reason you don't want to
have content scroll is because you
should provide visual indicators.
And the most common,
easiest way to do this is to
provide those paging controls
underneath the swipeable object.
And this lets users know
that they can swipe,
right?
Those little dots underneath.
And if you really don't want to
provide those paging controls,
those dots underneath,
you need to think about another way
to let users know that they can swipe.
You need some other type
of visual indicator.
So maybe consider using,
showing whatever's to the left or to the
right of the currently selected item.
And that's what we do in iMovie
and some of our iWork apps.
And so look how nice this looks.
It's a beautiful screen,
so it lets you choose the different
movies that you're editing.
And not only does it look good,
it's a really fast UI, right?
Because you're able to see that large
movie poster and then the name of the
movie above and that great billboard.
You're a lot less likely
to select the wrong movie,
then have to go back out to an
unhelpful list of file names,
you know, tap on something, go in,
load the movie, right?
So this is a great way to
really show the content.
And we couldn't provide the
paging controls here because
there's commands underneath.
So we show a little bit of
whatever's to the left or to
the right of the selected item.
So now I want to talk about tab bars
because they're another great way to
streamline the navigation in your app.
And Tab Bars are great for managing
complexity when you have a little bit
more of a lot different types of data,
right?
It's not all equal.
So you're able to manage
different data sets.
And you're all familiar with Tab Bars.
So they're in lots of our built-in
apps and they're also in a lot
of your apps on the App Store.
But so many developers that I meet with
just get confused about some of the small
nuances about how Tab Bars should work,
right?
They're almost used in
too many different ways.
They're overused.
And so I want to go through some
different rules about Tab Bars.
So there should only be one tab bar
at the highest level of your app.
If your app has so much different data
that you're thinking about using multiple
tab bars in different parts of your app,
the first thing you need to
do is just think about how
to simplify that data set.
Get it down to the most important items.
If you're really not able to simplify
the data set and you still think,
I need a tab bar in this part of
the app and a different one there,
you should really think about--
or you should use a different
navigation system altogether,
probably lists.
If you put multiple tab bars in your app,
users are going to get very
confused because they're not going
to know where the top level is.
They're not going to know how to
get from one section to the other.
Some tab bars have some items
and other tab bars have others.
So just one tab bar.
And tab bars should be mostly permanent,
right?
Almost every screen of your app should
have a tab bar if you're going to use it.
Users are going to look for this control
to get around the different sections.
Now it's okay to remove the tab bar if
you need to maximize screen real estate,
say for viewing content, viewing a photo,
or watching a movie,
reading a news article,
something like that.
But if you remove the tab bar,
it should always be the last
leaf of your data hierarchy,
right?
It's important to provide good
icons and labels in your tab bar.
So the labels need to
be concise and clear.
There shouldn't be any
redundancy in them.
Users should be able to read
them and right away know what's
going to be in that item.
And the icons should be
really distinguishable,
right?
Each of them should have different shapes
so the user can really know what's in the
difference by quickly looking down there.
And if you have tabs such as
featured or favorites or most viewed,
any of the ones that we
provide icons for in UIKit,
you should use the
standard icons from UIKit.
Users are accustomed
to seeing those icons.
This is a lot less work for you.
And there's not going to be any
confusion about what's in those tabs.
And one of the great features in
iOS 5 is that you're able to now
customize the look of tab bars,
right?
You're able to customize the look
of lots of other controls as well.
But tab bars are one of the
great ones to customize.
So many developers that I've met with
just have customized their tab bars.
They've rebuilt the entire
tab bar control for their app.
But when they rebuilt it,
when they customized it,
they weren't able to get all the nuances
of exactly what users are expecting,
right?
So sometimes the selection
state isn't completely visible
or some of the other behaviors,
such as tapping on the selected items to
go back to the parent item of that tab,
just doesn't work.
It gets really confusing.
But now in iOS 5,
you can customize that look.
So it doesn't necessarily
need to be black,
right?
And if you don't like
the selection color,
you're able to change it.
You want to be cautious here,
but it's a great feature if you want to
really match the aesthetic in the rest of
your app and still use standard controls.
There should only be five
visible items in a tab bar.
So another reason that I've seen
a lot of developers customize
tab bars is to make them scroll,
right?
They have more than five items
and for whatever reason they
don't want to use the more tab.
And so they create a tab bar that scrolls
and you can see more and more items.
And a scrolling tab bar is really
problematic on the iPhone because
users on the go have a really hard time
swiping versus just tapping in that same
small area at the bottom of the screen.
And so they often make mistakes.
So there should only be five visible
items and use the more tab when you
have more items that you want to fit in.
Prioritize which items make sense.
Make those the first four tabs and then
implement the standard more button.
And if you really want to avoid
using the more button just because
you can't figure out which are the
right four items to go in front,
again,
consider a different navigation model.
Tab bars might not make
sense for your app.
Don't force them in there.
Lists are probably what you want to use.
So let's talk a little bit about lists.
And lists are great.
They're another simple way to streamline
that navigation in your app when
you've got lots of different items
or just a few that fit on the screen.
You can make them very visual lists.
And we use them in apps like Settings,
right?
And when you have items that are similar,
you're able to group them
together and group lists.
So they're great.
It's very easy to read.
Unfortunately,
a common trend that I've seen lately
are apps that have a springboard
of icons as their main navigation.
And so you launch the app
and you just see this icon.
And it's very jarring for users.
They just came from the
iPhone's home screen where they
have a whole bunch of icons.
Now they're in this other app that's got
another whole bunch of springboard of
icons that the user has to deal with.
And it's confusing.
And it's also really slow.
Because on the iPhone home screen,
it's really fast to tap on it
to find apps because you've
customized the look of that.
You've installed most of those
apps or there are apps that
came with the phone as well.
And you're just used to
staring at them all day.
You set them up.
And you don't even read
the labels underneath.
You just look at the icon.
You tap that app and you're in.
But no matter how good
your icons are in your app,
users aren't going to be as
accustomed to seeing them.
And so what they're going to have to do
is read the labels underneath each icon.
And then their eye is going to
have to zigzag across the screen.
It's just much slower.
So avoid using a springboard of icons
in your app for the main navigation.
Look how much easier this is to read,
right?
The user can just kind of look down,
they can see the icons and the labels,
and just literally look and find
the item that they're looking for.
Remember that the point of your
navigation is to allow your
users to get to content quickly.
So this is Mint's app.
And Mint is a great app for
managing financial information.
You can set it up with
different bank accounts,
credit card accounts,
different investments
that you might have.
You can even track a
monthly budget for yourself.
And what they've done is they've provided
a custom list view because for them,
an overview of all the different
information in your app was way more
important than just a single item,
right?
So a tab bar wouldn't
have made as much sense.
And when you go into one of those items,
they wanted to use the full
screen for that specific item,
whether it's an account or investments,
right?
And so they didn't want that tab bar
to be permanent like it should be.
They've also gone the extra step
of putting important content
right into the list view itself.
So again, the content is right there.
If you see maybe a low balance
or something is wrong with one
of your credit card charges,
you can just tap on that item right away.
It's really fast.
The text is nice and legible as well.
On the iPhone,
you need to make sure that the
text is really easy to read
for your users wherever they're
going to be using your app.
This is the Stocks app.
Look at how big and easy to read
the numbers and ticker symbols are.
User might be checking their
portfolio under a table in a
meeting or in a restaurant.
So when you design your app,
if you need to increase the
font size and then it forces
content to move beyond the fold,
right, it's not in the viewable area
and the user has to scroll,
that's fine.
Don't worry about trying
to fit everything up there.
On the iPhone, users won't mind scrolling
to see additional data,
right?
It's one of the most intuitive
gestures on the iPhone.
It's one of the first things
you learn after tapping,
right?
You know how to scroll with your thumb.
Users will get really frustrated,
however,
if they have to constantly squint to
read the data in your app or bring
the device closer to their face.
What they'll often do then is
just close your app down and say,
"Okay, I can't read this.
I'm busy.
I'll just check when I get back to the
office." And if they're doing that,
you've missed the whole
point of an iPhone app,
right?
It's got to be portable.
So make sure everything's easy to read.
You want to plan for slow
internet connections.
Design your app to feel fast.
Many of your users are going to
be on slow cellular networks.
And you shouldn't make your
app feel like a web page.
Take advantage of the fact that
you're building a native iPhone app.
And so when a user interacts with
an element on your screen that's
going to require a network load,
you should immediately transition to the
screen that's going to load that data.
So you get that nice
animation right away,
immediate feedback.
And then that's where the progress
indicator should tell them,
OK, now we're waiting for some data.
If you just stay on the initial
screen when the user taps,
it feels a lot like just a website,
right?
And a lot of users won't even
notice that progress indicator
that you put on the screen.
And so they'll continue tapping on that
network load and maybe even slow it down,
right?
So really think about how
to make your app feel fast.
And a lot of times that's just
providing immediate transitions.
It really breaks down the
load time of the internet,
because something happens right away.
It feels faster.
and plan for no internet connections,
right?
Your app should feel useful.
And again, don't make it feel
like a static web page.
This is the NPR News app.
This is a great app for reading
all the content that's on NPR.
And what they do, when you load it,
it actually loads all those top
stories into the background.
It first loads the text,
and then it loads the photos afterwards.
And it caches all of that, right?
And so they were thinking about
intermittent internet connection.
So they first get the text,
then they'll go through and
get photos for each story.
And so if you're maybe reading the
news on your morning commute on the
train and you go through a tunnel
and you lose the internet connection,
you're still able to tap on any of
these articles that you've never
tapped on before and read that article,
right?
That's really useful.
They really thought about the
extreme portability of the device.
And so in your app,
think about what your users might
want to do when they're offline.
So put your app in airplane
mode and really think about what
the user could benefit from.
Okay, so that was the iPhone.
Remember to always design
for the extreme portability.
Make sure that the UI doesn't
feel cluttered and confusing.
And then it's easy to get to
all the information that you
want to get to very quickly.
Okay, so now let's talk about the iPad.
So, like the iPhone,
the iPad is extremely portable, right?
But it's not pocket-sized.
What I said earlier was the iPad's unique
screen is what you need to always think
about when you're designing for it.
So if you're bringing an app
from the iPhone to the iPad,
there's a lot of new
considerations to think about.
What used to just fill the entire
screen of an iPhone doesn't
even fill a section of the split
view or a popover on the iPad.
And this 10-inch screen makes the
iPad great for consuming content.
So viewing photos or reading magazines.
Watching movies.
Because it's 10 inches and you
hold it so close to your face,
it's actually a very
intimate viewing experience.
It feels a lot like watching a television
that's on the other side of the room.
But with the iPad,
you can reach out and touch that content.
And those of you who've made a
FaceTime call on the iPad know how
intimate this experience can be,
right?
It feels very different from
an iPhone FaceTime call,
right?
Because of the large size of the screen.
- But when the iPad first came out,
a lot of critics were saying,
"What's so special about the iPad?
"Isn't it just a big iPod
touch?" You've all heard this.
It's just a big iPod touch, right?
So I wanna read you a great quote.
Calling it an iPad, a big iPad touch,
is like calling a heated
swimming pool a big bathtub.
So both have hot water,
but it's the size that defines
the way that you use each one,
right?
Because the bathtub is so small,
it's a very utilitarian thing, right?
You use it to clean
yourself or maybe to relax.
It's very personal.
The size of the swimming pool
completely defines the way we use it.
We use it to exercise or to play.
It's a place we interact
with other people.
Similarly, the size of the iPad defines
the way that we use it.
It's very different.
For one thing, both of your hands can
fit on the iPad screen.
Data entry is much faster.
And the iPad's great for
representing real world objects.
So this is drums in GarageBand.
And I hope many of you have had
a chance to play with this app.
It's a lot of fun.
And you're able to just
kind of tap on the drums.
It feels all realistic.
You see all the movement.
And it's great.
We could have done this on the iPhone,
but it wouldn't have felt the same.
So when you're designing for the iPad,
always take advantage of that screen
and make sure you're showcasing content.
Don't just fill that screen with
unnecessary controls and all the
features that you may have cut
out from your desktop app because
now they'll fit on the screen.
You still need to think about
how to showcase the content.
So this is Pages.
This is an app from our iWork suite,
right?
And it's an app with lots of features.
But notice how much the
document just fills the screen,
right?
There's just a single toolbar at the top.
No matter how many features your app has,
you should always try to provide all
the commands in a single toolbar.
And put it at the top of the screen so
it pairs well with the OS status bar.
And it doesn't feel like there's a
window or frame around all the content.
And also,
it's much easier when a keyboard slides
up where the content needs to scroll
that the user doesn't need to worry about
that control bar kind of moving around.
So this is an app called Architizer.
This is a great app.
It's a free app on the App Store.
And it's an app that lets users
view different architecture
projects from all over the world.
And Architizer actually had a
website before the iPad came out.
They still have a website.
And it allows you to view these
different projects that different
architecture firms are submitting,
these gorgeous photos.
But when the iPad came out,
they completely rethought
the design for this device.
And so you no longer have the
paging controls around the website.
There's no all this extra different sets
of data that's surrounding these photos.
You just use your finger and swipe.
And as you swipe,
you just see more and more photos of
these gorgeous architecture projects.
They really rethought
the design for the iPad.
Once you've thought about how to
showcase the content in your app,
you should think about how
to enhance the interactivity.
Remember that it's not just
about extra features in the iPad.
So in the Photos app,
we took a lot of time to think about
how to make interacting with your
photos a lot more fun and natural.
We didn't just add in
all this extra stuff.
We really thought about the
transitions and how the users were
going to interact with the content.
This is our choice.
This is an interactive book from Al Gore.
And our choice won an
Apple Design Award last night.
It's a really fun book to interact with.
And the content, again,
fills the screen here.
And so when you're using our choice,
there's no table of contents.
You're easily able to just move
the different photos and the text.
You're able to pinch, flick,
swipe your way around.
And it looks great.
And it's fast to get to the different
places that you're looking at,
the different chapters
or the different pages.
Or infographics or whatever it may be.
And it's also a lot of fun.
This is Flipboard.
This is an app that many
of you are familiar with.
And this is an app that lets you
consume different internet feeds.
So you can set up your
Facebook or Twitter account or
just follow other RSS or other
news sources that are on the web.
And they really rethought this
whole concept for the iPad.
So they took the design and said,
you know,
what makes the most sense on this
device or what do we want users
to experience on this device?
And it feels a lot like a
magazine reading experience.
So you're able to just
flick the different pages,
flip them over.
And it's a great way.
It's not just this boring old
website that you're used to seeing
everywhere else and you're scrolling.
They really thought
about the iPad's design.
And in your app,
you need to think about how to take
advantage of this device as well.
Okay, so popovers.
Because the iPad screen is so large,
popovers are a great tool because
they provide context to the different
actions that a user may be doing,
right?
So this is the Photos app,
and so what happens when you have a
photo and you tap that action button at
the top is we throw out a popover and
it provides all the sharing options.
And the contextual nature
of popovers is great.
You're able to see the commands as
well as the content that they're
applying to right at the same time.
And the popover is pointing
right back to the control.
And so we use popovers in a lot
of different areas in our app,
and they're great.
So this is Numbers.
So like Pages,
it's an app with lots of features.
But we're able to really just
concentrate on the content here,
right?
There aren't controls all over the
place because what we did here is we
just provided the options that make
sense for the selected item in Numbers,
right?
So if you have a chart selected,
when you go to the media
popover or the media button,
a popover comes out.
And you just get different chart options.
So there aren't all these extra controls,
but there's still a lot of
functionality in this app.
But it looks really simple to use.
We use popovers to display
different settings.
This is iBook.
And in iBooks, again,
the user should just
be focusing on reading.
That's what they want to do.
They don't want to look at an interface.
But when they tap,
the controls show up on screen.
And if they tap the display button,
they're able to see a bunch of settings.
So they can choose different
typefaces or other display settings.
But when they tap outside of that area,
the popover just goes away.
And they're back to
whatever they were doing.
It's really fast.
Remember that there's two
types of popovers on the iPad,
modal and nonmodal.
And nonmodal popovers are
what you see in most places.
And they behave the way
that I just described.
When you tap outside of them,
they just disappear.
They're really fast to use.
And so if you're designing a
nonmodal popover into your app,
don't put a cancel
button at the top of it.
Users will get confused about
what the cancel button is for.
They'll think they need to read
every single option in that popover
because it's going to do something.
And it also just adds visual complexity
to the popover where it's not necessary.
So the only time you should have
a cancel button in your popover
is when you use modal popovers,
rather.
And we use modal popovers when the
task's just a little bit more involved.
So in editing an event in calendars,
this is a task that requires the
use of a keyboard or a picker.
And users don't want to lose data
if they tap outside of that popover.
Right?
So again, don't provide a cancel button
unless you really need it.
And then you should
provide a modal popover.
But as much as possible,
try to provide non-modal workflows.
And just use the non-modal popovers.
They're a lot faster.
So you always want to provide contextual
feedback in an iPad app as well.
So this is iTunes, the iTunes Store app.
And we use animation throughout this app.
So when you want to preview an album,
you just tap on it.
And the cover art flips around.
And there's a list of songs.
And if you want to preview one,
you tap on the song.
It animates to let you know it's
downloading from the internet.
Then it animates again to let you
know how much is left in that preview.
And then if you buy it,
it jumps over into the Downloads tab.
So you can continue looking at
the other songs in that album.
We don't force you to go over there.
So it's a great way to just inform
users about what's going on.
So let's take a look.
So you just tap it.
It flips around.
[Transcript missing]
And then it just hops out.
And notice that this
animation isn't gratuitous,
right?
It's actually communicating
useful feedback about
what's going on in the app.
So just don't add animation for the
sake of having animation in your app.
Really think about the different
contexts and how you can provide really
meaningful information to your users.
Okay, so take advantage of the fact that
when a user launches your app,
you can turn their iPad into
whatever you want it to be,
right?
So this is DJ.
And this is an app that also won
an Apple Design Award last night.
It's a beautiful app and it
represents a set of turntables.
And they've really added
physicality and realism to their UI,
right?
It looks like a real set of turntables.
It's fun to interact with.
And if you're a DJ,
right away you know what
all the different things do,
right?
There's the fader,
the different level meters,
you can even move.
the needle to different
parts of the record.
And so it actually informs
the user on how to use it,
right?
And if you're not a DJ,
the beautiful graphics make you
want to interact with this app,
right?
Whenever I've shown this app to
somebody who hasn't seen it before,
they want to grab my iPad
and just play around with it.
They want to be the DJ, right?
This is Mathboard.
This is an app for children
to learn basic arithmetic.
And they've mimicked a classroom
chalkboard in their app,
right?
And so they've really paid attention
to all the little details here.
The entire screen of the
iPad looks like a chalkboard,
right?
So they've got the colored chalk.
They even got the wood trim
and the eraser up there.
And if you look really
closely at this app,
there's actually chalk
residue on the slate,
right?
So it really feels natural.
This makes the app a lot more fun
for learning math to young children,
right?
So in your app,
think about what kind of graphics make
sense and what kind of things you can
represent in the real world that will
help users learn how to use your app.
Don't force physicality and realism
to your app if it doesn't make sense,
right?
There are advantages to the digital
world and what you can do there.
But when you are able to provide
physicality and realism into your app,
it makes for a really great
first and lasting impression.
Okay, so on the iPad,
you also need to consider
both orientations,
right?
Users expect to use your app in
whatever orientation they have
their iPad in when they launch it,
right?
And you should try your hardest
to meet this expectation.
So you're all familiar with how
mail handles the orientation change,
right?
It's a split view, and when you go from
landscape to portrait,
you see more of your message, right?
The inbox kind of hides
away into a popover,
and you can kind of swipe
to get it to come out.
If you're using a split view,
hopefully you're doing
something very similar.
It's pretty straightforward.
But many developers
that I meet with ask me,
they say, we want to provide support
for both orientations,
but it's a little bit confusing.
We're not sure what makes
sense in our custom UI.
So I want to provide some
tips on what you should do,
what you should think about when
you're designing for both orientations.
So remember that users are rotating
the device to see more content.
They don't want to see different content.
Many magazine apps that I've seen,
when you rotate them,
you see completely different photos
or news articles on the screen.
And not only is this confusing for users,
most people just won't even
find that other content,
so they'll miss out completely.
And so what a lot of other apps
have done then is provide these
annoying graphics on the screen,
and some of them even animate,
telling you, hey, rotate the device now.
And if you rely on these graphics to
tell users how to hold their device,
it means you're out of line
with what they're expecting,
right?
Don't require users to
change orientations.
So if you can't provide support for both
orientations throughout your entire app,
just be consistent and
stick with just one.
If you require users to turn
their device at certain points in
their workflow and certain tasks,
it's going to feel really confusing.
It might feel pretty buggy.
They're looking at something
and then everything's sideways.
Do I turn my head?
What's going on?
So just be consistent and stick
with one orientation if you
can't provide support all around.
And maintain focus on
the primary content.
Remember,
you want to make it easy for users
to continue doing whatever they were
doing when they rotated the device.
So if they're reading a news article,
they should easily be able to just
continue reading whatever part
of the story they were just in,
right?
So really think twice about reformatting
content or rewrapping text lines.
And if you do need to reformat content,
an animation is a great way
to provide the feedback about
what just happened to it.
And if you are going to use animation,
a good tip to think about is really
just think about whatever content
you have in your app and think
about if it was a real world object,
what would happen to it with gravity
if you were to just rotate it?
And that should be the
basis of your animation.
Okay, so that was the iPad.
Always remember to design for this
large 10-inch multi-touch display
and treat it like a unique device.
So now let's talk about the Mac.
So in Lion,
we've gone through and updated
every control in AppKit.
And so if you're using standard
AppKit controls in your Mac app,
you'll be all set.
It'll feel right at home
on the new interface.
But if you've customized the
UI of different buttons and
other controls in your app,
and they look old or they mimic
some of our old Aqua controls,
make sure that you're
refreshing your interface.
Otherwise,
it's just going to feel dated and
kind of buggy when Lion comes out,
right?
We've kind of made a lot of
the gradients more subtle.
Buttons are flatter.
Edge treatments just aren't as strong.
And you should really take a
look at what we've done to the
different controls in AppKit.
A lot of the subtle changes that
we've made to these controls
in AppKit go a long way to
showcasing the content in your app.
And so this is something that we
definitely learned from iOS and the iPad.
Content is really important.
And so one of these things that
you'll notice is the sidebar icons.
They're now monochrome.
They're not color.
And you need to now provide monochrome,
white,
transparent PDF icons for your app.
And it really makes the rest of the
content in your window stand out.
In some of our other apps like Mail,
we've also reduced color
in the toolbar as well.
So content again comes
out a little bit more.
And a much more noticeable
change is that scroll bars aren't
visible when you're not scrolling.
So there's a lot less attention to
different interface elements in a window.
It's about the content.
So good tips for designing lists now
that scroll boards aren't visible
is that you should think about
providing nonintegral amount of rows
when you can so that data kind of
gets cut off in that viewable area.
And that way users know that they
can kind of just grab their mouse
or trackpad and flip to see more.
Design a beautiful icon for your Mac app.
This is something that Mac users expect
much more than users of other platforms.
It gives users their first impression
of your app on the Mac App Store.
And I'm sure many of you have this
situation where you're downloading
an app from the App Store and
you see the icon and it's okay,
but it's not great.
And it makes you wonder,
how much care and consideration did
the developer put into this app?
It might be buggy,
they didn't think about how to
simplify different workflows.
So it's really important
to design a beautiful icon.
And with Launchpad,
it's more important than ever before.
If you're coming from iOS,
make sure you design a
new icon for the Mac.
Those rounded square buttons in iOS just
doesn't feel appropriate on the Mac,
right?
On the dashboard or on the
launch pad or on the dock.
So this is GarageBand.
These are both of our icons.
But one is clearly designed for the iOS
and the other is designed for the Mac.
There's a distinct shape so it's
easy to find in the user's dock.
And designing an icon is
a highly specialized task.
So even if you're the type of
developer that's designing all the
UI yourself and using standard app
kit controls and interface builder,
you haven't hired a
designer to help you out,
you should at least hire a
designer to design your icon.
So popovers are now on the Mac.
They're standard app key control, right?
And like the iPad,
they're great for managing complexity.
In iCal, we realized that users don't
often turn on and off calendars.
It's not a task that they frequently do.
So we put those controls in a popover.
This, again, allows the content of the
window to really stand out.
We also use popovers in Safari.
We replaced the need for the
utility downloads window.
And this is great because the user
doesn't need to manage their interface,
right?
And the downloads window
was always kind of annoying.
It kind of popped up,
then got hidden behind,
but it was peeking through.
You'd close some windows and
you'd discover it was still open.
Well, with popovers,
the user doesn't need to
manage their interface.
And this is really important
because in full screen,
these utilities and floating palettes
and other things that are around the
screen just aren't going to make as
much sense in your full screen app.
And so popovers are a great way to
provide a lot of these controls in
your full screen version of your app.
So let's talk a little bit
more about full screen.
So if your app is about consuming
content or creating content,
your users are really going to appreciate
a well-designed full screen app.
Now if your app is kind of a utility type
of app that users don't frequently use,
maybe it runs in the background, well,
full screen might not be appropriate.
It's not for every app
on the Mac App Store.
But remember that lots of
our users are running 11-inch
or 13-inch MacBook Airs now.
And they're going to want to run every
app that they have in full screen.
With the gestures,
it's just so easy to swipe between them.
It's this great controlled experience.
So let's talk about some tips for
designing your app for full screen.
Think about the user context.
So here's preview in full screen.
When a user enters full
screen for preview,
we hide the toolbar by default.
Because we thought about what's the user
likely to do in full screen in preview?
They want to read the document.
They're not likely to search for
different things or make annotations.
In your app, think about what your
users are going to do.
In Mail, we show the toolbar by
default in full screen.
Because users are frequently
going to need to tap on the
different controls up there,
even in full screen.
right?
Don't remove features.
Users will get really frustrated if they
constantly have to exit full screen just
to complete common tasks in your app.
And maybe it's OK to not provide
functionality for everything,
settings, or setting up accounts,
something that you do maybe
once or twice in an app.
But everything else that they normally do
should actually operate in full screen.
Focus on content.
This is iPhoto.
In full screen,
the whole interface gets dark.
It really makes the photos and
videos in your library just pop out.
This dark interface would have felt
really out of place in a window
because it just wouldn't match any of
the other interface elements on OS X.
But take advantage of the
fact that in full screen,
you don't need to match
any of that other stuff,
right?
And so you can use these darker interface
controls or whatever makes sense for your
app to really have a full experience.
Take advantage of the
horizontal real estate.
So, Macs come in different
sizes as I talked about,
11 inch to 27 inch,
but they all have 16 by
9 screen aspect ratios.
So, when we redesign mail,
we move the messages from above the
selected message over to the left
to take advantage of this space.
And this is a consideration for the
window mode of your app as well.
But it makes a huge
difference in full screen,
right,
when it's filling that entire screen.
OK, so on the Mac,
users also expect the graphics and the
whole experience to be really engaging.
This is something that's
also unique about OS X.
So this is photo booth in mind.
And those curtains, they look great,
and they kind of animate open and close,
depending on what you're doing.
It sets up this mood for
how much fun this app is.
This is versions.
This is a utility feature,
but it looks great.
And the graphics actually
tell the user what's going on.
The three-dimensional view of
the different versions going
back into time and space,
it's actually helpful.
Don't just add over-the-top
graphics to your app just
for the sake of having them.
Really think about how to provide
useful feedback about what's going
on in your app and kind of setting
the mood for what you want your
users to kind of think about.
OK, so the last thing I want to cover
on the Mac side are gestures.
So as I mentioned earlier,
we really think that the new
multi-touch gestures in Lion are going
to fundamentally change the way a lot
of people interact with the computer.
But you need to be cautious about
implementing gestures in your app.
So let's go over some rules.
Support the standard behaviors.
This provides consistency across
all the different apps that a user
is going to be using on the OS.
And think about the different
gestures that make sense for your app.
Don't just add all the support for
all the new multi-touch gestures
in your app because you think it's
going to be cutting edge and cool.
If it doesn't make sense,
users are going to get frustrated.
It's going to feel gimmicky.
So just think about the
ones that make sense.
Think about gestures like
accelerated keyboard shortcuts.
Every command that you have hooked up
to a gesture should have an equivalent
UI affordance or keyboard shortcut.
A lot of users won't have
trackpads attached to their Mac.
If you just rely on the gesture alone,
you're going to be
cutting those users off.
Other users might disable the
gestures for accessibility reasons.
So make sure you don't
rely on gestures alone.
Provide responsive feedback.
When a user interacts
with their touch screen,
the screen should update and
let them know what's going on.
So if you're rotating a photo,
the photo should actually rotate so
it feels like you're grabbing it.
And if you're swiping,
items should come in from
the left or the right sides.
Be careful about
defining custom gestures.
Most users won't discover them and they
probably won't remember them either.
Again,
going back to the keyboard metaphor,
a custom gesture is a lot like
an obscure keyboard shortcut.
Users just won't remember about it.
Sometimes they'll just
discover it accidentally.
Like, what just happened there?
So be really careful about
defining custom gestures.
Okay, so that was the Mac.
Really take the time to learn about
all the new features and the way that
we've redesigned the interface for Lion.
Make sure that your app
feels at home on OS X.
OK, so I know I covered a
lot of material today,
so I want to leave you
with some final thoughts.
So at the beginning of the talk,
I talked about how each of these
different devices were unique.
But I hope you now realize that
there's a lot of similarities
between the different devices,
right?
Your goal is the same.
You're trying to make
your app easy to use.
You want to showcase content
on all the different devices.
It should be beautiful.
They expect a really engaging experience.
But you need to consider the
unique characteristics of each
device to accomplish this goal,
right?
You need to design for a specific device.
On the iPhone, you should think about
the extreme portability.
Think about how to make
it fast and reliable.
On the iPad, make it immersive.
Make it fun.
Make the graphics beautiful.
And you can use realism to take advantage
of that large multi-touch screen.
And on the Mac, think about OS X,
all the great features it provides.
Think about why Mac users
love to use a Mac.
And make sure that your app doesn't
feel just like another web page or
an app from a different platform
that was just ported onto the Mac.
It won't be as successful as it could be.
And refine your feature set.
When you target a highly focused
set of features for your app,
you're able to ensure that everything's
going to work out just right.
You can deal with animations,
the graphics, different edge cases that
might come up in the later
part of your development cycle.
If you just try to build
so many different things,
you're often going to need to
sacrifice the UI and user experience
of different parts of your app.
Think about the different
features that we provide in the
different platforms that we have,
right?
So iMovie, Mail, iWork.
We have apps on the iPhone, the iPad,
and the Mac.
And think about which features that we
put in there and what makes sense for
all the different ways that people use
each device that I've been talking about.
And finally, delight your users.
Remember that your goal is to enable
your users to use your app in the most
intuitive and delightful way possible.
And I hope you can get started
with a lot of the tips that
I went through today on your app.
So I didn't cover so many
different topics on UI.
So please make note of my email address.
And get in contact with me later this
week or after the show if you have
specific questions on the UI in your app.
And make note of the human
interface guidelines where we
keep them on our developer site.
And we're working really hard on
an update for the Mac OS X human
interface guidelines.
So stay tuned about that.
All right, thanks for listening.